README.md, before:

# Svelte overlay

> Fully customizable Svelte overlay which fits to available space

> Great for creating dropdowns, tooltips and popovers

Svelte overlay is wrapper copmponent which makes all difficult stuff for you, but you decide when to open/close 
it and how it looks.

## Features
- it's portaled (always visible, even if inside e.g modal with overflow: hidden)
- if content has not enough space on one side it will try to render on other side. For instance if position is set to `top-left` and there's no room on top position will be set to `bottom-left`. This feature listens to window resize event
- may be open/closed on every trigger and content event or from outside
- you decide how trigger and content looks
- may be closed on click outside, window keydown, or body scroll
- may update position on scroll
- dispatches toggle event when open state changed

[![License](http://img.shields.io/:license-mit-blue.svg)](http://doge.mit-license.org)

## Example

```javascript
<script>
  import Overlay from 'svelte-overlay';
</script>

<Overlay>

  <!-- TRIGGER -->
  <button slot="parent" let:toggle on:click={toggle}>
    Click Me!
  </button>

  <!-- CONTENT -->
  <div slot="content">
    Lorem ipsum dolor sit.
  </div>

</Overlay>
```
---

![Positions](https://j.gifs.com/p8P3v6.gif)

---

![It fits](https://j.gifs.com/JyRogo.gif)

## Installation

```npm install --save svelte-overlay```

or

```yarn add svelte-overlay```

---
## Props

**Important**
To get it work component requires two slots:
- `parent`
- `content`

**Overlay props**

| Prop name | Type | Description | Default |
| --- |  --- | --- | --- |
| isOpen | Boolean | isOpen state | false |
| position | String | `top-left`<br />`top-center`<br />`top-right`<br />`bottom-left`<br />`bottom-center`<br />`bottom-right`<br />`left-top`<br />`left-center`<br />`left-bottom`<br />`right-top`<br />`right-center`<br />`right-bottom`<br /><br />Uses default position when wrong position was passed | `bottom-right` |
| zIndex | Number | value of z-index for overlay and portaled content | 1 |
| closeOnClickOutside | Boolean | if true click outside will close overlay | false |
| closeOnScroll | Boolean | if true scrolling outside content will close overlay | false |
| updateOnScroll | Boolean | if true scrolling will update content position | false |
| onWindowKeyDown | Function | triggers when overlay is opened and user hit any button.<br/>Gets Event as first argument and object of { open, close, toggle, isOpen } | |
| on:toggle | Function | Event dispatched on overlay toggle.<br/>Gets Event as first argument and object of { open, close, toggle, isOpen } | |

**slot props**

Each slot gets theese props, available through let:propName

| Prop name | Type | Description |
| --- |  --- | --- |
| isOpen | Boolean | isOpen state |
| toggle | Function | allows to toggle open state. Gets current isOpen value as argument |
| open | Function | allows to open overlay |
| close | Function | allows to close overlay |

---

## Usage

### Close on escape keydown and click outside

```javascript
<script>
  import Overlay from 'svelte-overlay';

  function handleKeyDown(event, { close }) {
    if (event.key === 'Escape') {
      close();
    }
  }
</script>

<Overlay closeOnClickOutside onWindowKeyDown={handleKeyDown}>
  <button slot="parent" let:toggle on:click={toggle}>
    Click Me!
  </button>

  <div slot="content">
    Lorem ipsum dolor sit.
  </div>

</Overlay>
```

### Close from content

```javascript
<script>
  import Overlay from 'svelte-overlay';
</script>

<Overlay>
  <button slot="parent" let:toggle on:click={toggle}>
    Click Me!
  </button>

  <div slot="content" let:close>
    <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit.</p>
    <button on:click={close}>Close</button>
  </div>

</Overlay>
```

### Open/close on mouseenter/mouseleave

```javascript
<script>
  import Overlay from 'svelte-overlay';
</script>

<Overlay>
  <button slot="parent" let:open let:close on:mouseenter={open} on:mouseleave={close}>
    Click Me!
  </button>

  <div slot="content">
    Lorem ipsum dolor sit.
  </div>

</Overlay>
```

### Open from outside

```javascript
<script>
  import Overlay from 'svelte-overlay';
  let isOpen = false;

  function handleToggle(event) {
    if (event.detail !== isOpen) {
      isOpen = event.detail;
    }
  }

  function toggleFromOutside() {
    isOpen = !isOpen;
  }
</script>

<button on:click={toggleFromOutside}>Toggle from outside</button>

<Overlay {isOpen} >
  <div slot="parent" on:toggle={handleToggle}>
    I am a parent
  </div>

  <div slot="content">
    Lorem ipsum dolor sit.
  </div>

</Overlay>
```

### With backdrop, disabled scroll and animations

```javascript
<script>
  import Overlay from 'svelte-overlay';
  import { fly, fade } from 'svelte/transition';

  let isOpen = false;

  function handleToggle(event) {
    if (event.detail !== isOpen) {
      isOpen = event.detail;
      document.body.classList.toggle('no-scroll', isOpen);
    }
  }
</script>

{#if isOpen}
  <div class="backdrop" transition:fade={{ duration: 200 }}/>
{/if}

<Overlay
  on:toggle={handleToggle}
  closeOnClickOutside
  zIndex={100}
  {isOpen}>
  <button slot="parent" let:toggle on:click={toggle}>Click Me!</button>
  <div slot="content" transition:fly={{ y: 5, duration: 200 }} class="content">
    Lorem ipsum dolor sit.
  </div>
</Overlay>

<style>
  :global(.no-scroll) {
    overflow: hidden;
  }

  .backdrop {
    z-index: 99;
    position: fixed;
    top: 0;
    right: 0;
    bottom: 0;
    left: 0;
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
    background: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2);
  }

  .content {
    border: 1px solid #ddd;
    background: #f7f7f7;
    padding: 1em;
    width: max-content;
    max-width: 200px;
    max-height: 100px;
    overflow: auto;
  }
</style>

```

---

## License

[![License](http://img.shields.io/:license-mit-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](http://badges.mit-license.org)

- **[MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)**

Commit message:

feat: added class and style props

README.md, after:

# Svelte overlay

> Fully customizable Svelte overlay which fits to available space

> Great for creating dropdowns, tooltips and popovers

Svelte overlay is wrapper copmponent which makes all difficult stuff for you, but you decide when to open/close 
it and how it looks.

## Features
- it's portaled (always visible, even if inside e.g modal with overflow: hidden)
- if content has not enough space on one side it will try to render on other side. For instance if position is set to `top-left` and there's no room on top position will be set to `bottom-left`. This feature listens to window resize event
- may be open/closed on every trigger and content event or from outside
- you decide how trigger and content looks
- may be closed on click outside, window keydown, or body scroll
- may update position on scroll
- dispatches toggle event when open state changed

[![License](http://img.shields.io/:license-mit-blue.svg)](http://doge.mit-license.org)

## Example

```javascript
<script>
  import Overlay from 'svelte-overlay';
</script>

<Overlay>

  <!-- TRIGGER -->
  <button slot="parent" let:toggle on:click={toggle}>
    Click Me!
  </button>

  <!-- CONTENT -->
  <div slot="content">
    Lorem ipsum dolor sit.
  </div>

</Overlay>
```
---

![Positions](https://j.gifs.com/p8P3v6.gif)

---

![It fits](https://j.gifs.com/JyRogo.gif)

## Installation

```npm install --save svelte-overlay```

or

```yarn add svelte-overlay```

---
## Props

**Important**
To get it work component requires two slots:
- `parent`
- `content`

**Overlay props**

| Prop name | Type | Description | Default |
| --- |  --- | --- | --- |
| isOpen | Boolean | isOpen state | false |
| position | String | `top-left`<br />`top-center`<br />`top-right`<br />`bottom-left`<br />`bottom-center`<br />`bottom-right`<br />`left-top`<br />`left-center`<br />`left-bottom`<br />`right-top`<br />`right-center`<br />`right-bottom`<br /><br />Uses default position when wrong position was passed | `bottom-right` |
| zIndex | Number | value of z-index for overlay and portaled content | 1 |
| class | string | global class name | '' |
| style | string | style string which will be added at the end of component style attribute | '' |
| closeOnClickOutside | Boolean | if true click outside will close overlay | false |
| closeOnScroll | Boolean | if true scrolling outside content will close overlay | false |
| updateOnScroll | Boolean | if true scrolling will update content position | false |
| onWindowKeyDown | Function | triggers when overlay is opened and user hit any button.<br/>Gets Event as first argument and object of { open, close, toggle, isOpen } | |
| on:toggle | Function | Event dispatched on overlay toggle.<br/>Gets Event as first argument and object of { open, close, toggle, isOpen } | |

**slot props**

Each slot gets theese props, available through let:propName

| Prop name | Type | Description |
| --- |  --- | --- |
| isOpen | Boolean | isOpen state |
| toggle | Function | allows to toggle open state. Gets current isOpen value as argument |
| open | Function | allows to open overlay |
| close | Function | allows to close overlay |

---

## Usage

### Close on escape keydown and click outside

```javascript
<script>
  import Overlay from 'svelte-overlay';

  function handleKeyDown(event, { close }) {
    if (event.key === 'Escape') {
      close();
    }
  }
</script>

<Overlay closeOnClickOutside onWindowKeyDown={handleKeyDown}>
  <button slot="parent" let:toggle on:click={toggle}>
    Click Me!
  </button>

  <div slot="content">
    Lorem ipsum dolor sit.
  </div>

</Overlay>
```

### Close from content

```javascript
<script>
  import Overlay from 'svelte-overlay';
</script>

<Overlay>
  <button slot="parent" let:toggle on:click={toggle}>
    Click Me!
  </button>

  <div slot="content" let:close>
    <p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit.</p>
    <button on:click={close}>Close</button>
  </div>

</Overlay>
```

### Open/close on mouseenter/mouseleave

```javascript
<script>
  import Overlay from 'svelte-overlay';
</script>

<Overlay>
  <button slot="parent" let:open let:close on:mouseenter={open} on:mouseleave={close}>
    Click Me!
  </button>

  <div slot="content">
    Lorem ipsum dolor sit.
  </div>

</Overlay>
```

### Open from outside

```javascript
<script>
  import Overlay from 'svelte-overlay';
  let isOpen = false;

  function handleToggle(event) {
    if (event.detail !== isOpen) {
      isOpen = event.detail;
    }
  }

  function toggleFromOutside() {
    isOpen = !isOpen;
  }
</script>

<button on:click={toggleFromOutside}>Toggle from outside</button>

<Overlay {isOpen} >
  <div slot="parent" on:toggle={handleToggle}>
    I am a parent
  </div>

  <div slot="content">
    Lorem ipsum dolor sit.
  </div>

</Overlay>
```

### With backdrop, disabled scroll and animations

```javascript
<script>
  import Overlay from 'svelte-overlay';
  import { fly, fade } from 'svelte/transition';

  let isOpen = false;

  function handleToggle(event) {
    if (event.detail !== isOpen) {
      isOpen = event.detail;
      document.body.classList.toggle('no-scroll', isOpen);
    }
  }
</script>

{#if isOpen}
  <div class="backdrop" transition:fade={{ duration: 200 }}/>
{/if}

<Overlay
  on:toggle={handleToggle}
  closeOnClickOutside
  zIndex={100}
  {isOpen}>
  <button slot="parent" let:toggle on:click={toggle}>Click Me!</button>
  <div slot="content" transition:fly={{ y: 5, duration: 200 }} class="content">
    Lorem ipsum dolor sit.
  </div>
</Overlay>

<style>
  :global(.no-scroll) {
    overflow: hidden;
  }

  .backdrop {
    z-index: 99;
    position: fixed;
    top: 0;
    right: 0;
    bottom: 0;
    left: 0;
    width: 100%;
    height: 100%;
    background: rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.2);
  }

  .content {
    border: 1px solid #ddd;
    background: #f7f7f7;
    padding: 1em;
    width: max-content;
    max-width: 200px;
    max-height: 100px;
    overflow: auto;
  }
</style>

```

---

## License

[![License](http://img.shields.io/:license-mit-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](http://badges.mit-license.org)

- **[MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php)**
